---
layout: post
title: "Sniffnet crosses 500k downloads"
share-title: "Sniffnet crosses 500k downloads"
nav-title: News
thumbnail-img: /assets/img/post/new-domain/cover.png
tags: [trending]
github-discussion: xxxx
---

Sniffnet just reached <b>500k total downloads!</b><br><br>
When I started developing Sniffnet nearly 4 years ago, 
I’d have never imagined that a project born almost for fun could one day be installed 
half a million times by people from all over the world.<br><br>
I see each download as a person my tool helped to debug and better understand
their own network, and this is something that couldn’t make me happier.<br><br>
While this might not seem a huge number compared to some enterprise applications, 
from my point of view this is definitely a milestone worth celebrating,
especially considering that I’ve built Sniffnet from scratch as a solo maintainer,
and that most of this growth is surprisingly recent.<br>
In fact, the last 10 months alone account for more than 200k downloads, and <a href="{{ 'news/v1.5' | relative_url }}">v1.5.0</a> (published just 70 days ago)
is already the most installed Sniffnet version with about 100k downloads.<br><br>
Even if those are <i>just numbers</i>, I’m so proud of them
and have been counting down to the 500k mark for the past few weeks (yeah, I love numbers).<br><br>
But now let’s cut the chatter and see some more in-depth statistics
(ok, I <i>really</i> love numbers).

<hr>

### Downloads by operating system

As you can see in the chart below,
the largest slice of Sniffnet’s audience (58%) uses Windows,
and this makes sense since Microsoft's operating system is by far
the most widespread among end users worldwide.<br>
macOS and Linux split the rest almost evenly, at 21% and 20% respectively.

It’s curious to compare this with global OS usage stats: according to <a target="_blank" rel="noopener" href="https://gs.statcounter.com/os-market-share/desktop/worldwide">statcounter</a>, Windows powers about 62% of desktops, macOS about 15%, and Linux just 3%.<br>
Notably, Linux is far more common in Sniffnet’s user base than across the general population, as you'd expect for a tool especially appreciated by developers, network geeks, and the open-source community.<br>

Official download statistics for Sniffnet packages on other OSes (for example <a target="_blank" rel="noopener" href="https://www.freshports.org/net/sniffnet">FreeBSD</a> and <a target="_blank" rel="noopener" href="https://pkgsrc.se/net/sniffnet">NetBSD</a>)
aren’t available, and that’s why they aren’t represented in the chart.

<hr>

### Downloads by source

Since Sniffnet is packaged in multiple ways,
it’s also interesting to look at the source of the installs.

In this regard, <a target="_blank" rel="noopener" href="https://github.com/GyulyVGC/sniffnet/releases">GitHub releases</a> is the clear winner with 82% of the share.<br>
This isn’t a surprise since it’s the standard and recommended way to install Sniffnet,
and direct links to the GitHub-hosted executables are prominently 
highlighted both on this website and the project README.

Despite this, there’s a fair number of users that prefer
the Rust package manager <a target="_blank" rel="noopener" href="https://crates.io/crates/sniffnet">crates.io</a> (10%), and macOS’s <a target="_blank" rel="noopener" href="https://github.com/Homebrew/homebrew-core/pkgs/container/core%2Fsniffnet">Homebrew</a> (7%). <br>
The tiniest fraction (0.8%) comes from the <a target="_blank" rel="noopener" href="https://github.com/GyulyVGC/sniffnet/pkgs/container/sniffnet">Docker image</a>
I published less than a year ago, which only works on Linux.

<hr>

### Looking forward

Sniffnet won’t stop here and I already can’t wait for the 1 million mark!<br>
Let’s keep the snowball rolling and make network monitoring comfortable for even more people!
